# OpenWrt Directory Listing CGI

The default Apache/nginx directory listing fails to show useful information about OpenWrt firmware images.
This project has a CGI script that displays:

* An attractive file name (instead of the full path)
* The checksum for easy verification before flashing
* The file size and modification date
* OpenWrt styling on the page

The repo has several kinds of files:

1. **OpenWrt "targets" listing** for devices having the same target.
This shows the image files plus supplementary files - build tools,
the imagebuilder, sha256sum, GPG signature file, and other useful files. 
2. **Normal directory listings** with file name, size, and modification date.
3. **404 Page not found** page that displays the URL with the OpenWrt styling
4. **JSON of the directory contents**
5. **New home page** In addition, this repo contains a new home page for [downloads.openwrt.org](https://downloads.openwrt.org) that uses the new OpenWrt styling.
6. **Archive page** that lists older, unmaintained versions of OpenWrt

## Configuration

* The `dir-index.cgi` file in this repository is a CGI file that formats the directory contents to produce these listings
* The `nginx-snippet.conf` file is used to configure nginx on the main OpenWrt server to use the `dir-index.cgi` file to format the directory pages.

## Testing

The `test.sh` script creates an output file for each of the file types above. 

* [targets.html](targets.html) - the "target firmware" page
* [directory.html](directory.html) - a "normal" directory page
* [404.html](404.html) - the Page Not Found page
* [output.json](output.json) - the JSON output of the script

These files are static, and not generated by `dir-index.cgi`.

* [index.html](index.html) - new home page for the downloads.openwrt.org.
* [archive.html](archive.html) - separate page listing historic, no-longer-maintained versions.

Click the links above to view the pages in a browser.

**Developing and Testing**

`test.sh` is a script that regenerates the Targets, Directory, 404 and JSON files. To use it, save changes, run `sh test.sh`, and reload the browser.

**Verifying HTML Output**

Paste the HTML files into [W3C Markup Validation Service](https://validator.w3.org/#validate_by_input) to verify that the HTML output is good.

## Provenance of Assorted Assets

* SVG images of OpenWrt logo (three color variations) from [https://gist.github.com/jow-/503002651aa3ee3e8803b5ad29abf7ca#file-openwrt-logo-white-and-dark-blue-svg](https://gist.github.com/jow-/503002651aa3ee3e8803b5ad29abf7ca#file-openwrt-logo-white-and-dark-blue-svg)
* GalanoGrotesque.woff comes from OpenWrt repo: [https://github.com/openwrt/luci/blob/master/themes/luci-theme-openwrt-2020/htdocs/luci-static/openwrt2020/GalanoGrotesqueW00-Regular.woff2
](https://github.com/openwrt/luci/blob/master/themes/luci-theme-openwrt-2020/htdocs/luci-static/openwrt2020/GalanoGrotesqueW00-Regular.woff2
)
* Canonical CSS file for OpenWrt theme: [https://github.com/openwrt/luci/blob/master/themes/luci-theme-openwrt-2020/htdocs/luci-static/openwrt2020/cascade.css](https://github.com/openwrt/luci/blob/master/themes/luci-theme-openwrt-2020/htdocs/luci-static/openwrt2020/cascade.css)
* Logo used in header is now a PNG to avoid concerns of XSS. This would not be a threat as long as we trust whoever is uploading images (particularly SVGs) not to incorporate hidden Javascript. However, a PNG is safer.
